vm/README.md, before:

# Stack based VM

## module structure
| name            | size(bytes)     | description                             |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| module_name_len | 1               | length in bytes of name to follow       |
| module_name     | module_name_len | name data                               |
| num_fns         | 1               | number of function entries to follow    |
| **fn_entry[n]** |                 | **single function entry:**              |
| fn_name_len[n]  | 1               | length in bytes of name to follow       |
| fn_name[n]      | fn_name_len     | name data                               |
| entry offset[n] | 2               | little endian offset from start of file |
| data and code   |                 | data and code                           |

## bytecode
| opcode                           | val | stack effects            | description                              |
| -------------------------------- | --- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| `nop`                            | 0   | --                       | no op                                    |
| `+`                              | 1   | `l r -- l+r`             |                                          |
| `-`                              | 2   |                          |                                          |
| `*`                              | 3   |                          |                                          |
| `/`                              | 4   |                          |                                          |
| `%`                              | 5   |                          |                                          |
| `>>`                             | 6   |                          |                                          |
| `<<`                             | 7   |                          |                                          |
| `~`                              | 8   |                          |                                          |
| `>`                              | 9   | `l r -- l>r?`            | true=0, false=~0                         |
| `<`                              | 10  |                          |                                          |
| `>=`                             | 11  |                          |                                          |
| `<=`                             | 12  |                          |                                          |
| `==`                             | 13  |                          |                                          |
| `!=`                             | 14  |                          |                                          |
| `jump`                           | 15  | `addr -- `               | jump to addr on stack                    |
| `jump_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]`   | 16  | `--`                     | jump to addr in progmem                  |
| `call`                           | 17  | `addr -- `               | call to addr on stack                    |
| `call_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]`   | 18  | `--`                     | call to addr in progmem                  |
| `btrue`                          | 19  | `test addr -- `          | branch if test to addr on stack          |
| `btrue_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]`  | 20  | `test --`                | branch if test to addr in progmem        |
| `bfalse`                         | 21  | `test addr -- `          | branch if ~test to addr on stack         |
| `bfalse_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]` | 22  | `test --`                | branch if ~test to addr in progmem       |
| `return` or `;`                  | 23  | `--`                     | [return from call](#calling-convention)  |
| `load_module`                    | 24  | `nameptr -- id`          | load module from cstr-ptr on stack       |
| `extern_call`                    | 25  | `modid fnid --`          | call module/function                     |
| `loadword` or `@`                | 26  | `ptr -- n`               | load 2-byte word from progmem to stack   |
| `storeword` or `!`               | 27  | `n ptr --`               | store 2-byte word from stack to progmem  |
| `push_imm[imm_lsb][imm_msb]`     | 28  | `-- imm`                 | push immediate from progmem to stack     |
| `dup`                            | 29  | `n -- n n`               |                                          |
| `swap`                           | 30  | `a b -- b a`             |                                          |
| `drop`                           | 31  | `n --`                   |                                          |
| `over`                           | 32  | `a b -- a b a`           |                                          |
| `rot`                            | 33  | `a b c -- b c a`         |                                          |
| `dup2`                           | 34  | `n m -- n m n m`         |                                          |
| `swap2`                          | 35  | `a b c d -- c d a b`     |                                          |
| `over2`                          | 36  | `a b c d -- a b c d a b` |                                          |
| `drop2`                          | 37  | `a b --`                 | this is stupid                           |
| `rpush` or `>r`                  | 38  | `n -- `                  | pop from stack, push to return stack     |
| `rpop` or `r>`                   | 39  | `-- n`                   | pop from return stack, push to stack     |
| `rcopy` or `r@`                  | 40  | `-- n`                   | copy top item from return stack to stack |
| `inc`                            | 41  | `n -- n+1`               |                                          |
| `dec`                            | 42  | `n -- n-1`               |                                          |
| `rcopy2`                         | 40  | `-- a b`                 | copy top 2 from return stack, same order |
| `loadbyte` or `@b`               | 40  | `ptr -- n`               | load 1-byte word from progmem to stack   |
| `storebyte` or `!b`              | 40  | `n ptr --`               | store 1-byte word from stack to progmem  |

## calling convention
TODO figure out how inter-module calls and returns work (push inter-module tag
to return stack so we know when returning?)

## `as2.py` syntax
```
(comment)
(
    multi
    line comment
)

fn: ( <- label )
    10 print
; ( <- return )

myvar: #0 ( <- #n adds 2-byte value n to progmem here )
#b255 ( <- single byte literal to progmem)
#0x255 ( <- hex literal to progmem)
#b0x255 ( <- single byte hex)

#[
    0011 2233
    aabb ccdd
    eeff abcd
]
(binary block, each pair of hex numbers added verbatim to program here, any whitespace ignored)

mystr: "henlo" ( <- adds null-terminated string here )

entry:
    &mylabel ( <- push address of mylabel to stack)
    mylabel ( <- call_imm to mylabel )
    123 ( <- push_imm 123 )
;

macro! ( <- call macro (syntax is dependent on macro ) )
```

## `as2.py` macros
### `if!`
```
<n> if!
    [ (true branch code) ]
    [ (false branch code) ]
```
Eg
```
3 4 < if!
    [ 1 print ]
    [ 0 print ]
```

compiles to 
```
    (condition)
    bfalse_imm->else

    (true code)

    jump_imm->end
else:

    (false code)

end:
```

### `for!`
Expect `(startidx exclusive_upper_bound)` on stack. Loop the body until
idx>=bound. The loop index is stored on top of the return stack (upper bound is
stored below it on return stack), and can be retrieved with `r@`. This means you
must clean up the return stack (pop two from it) if doing an early exit.

```
<startidx> <exclusive_upper_bound> for! [
    (body)
]
```

compiles to:
```
    rpush
    rpush
loop_start:
    rcopy2
    > bfalse_imm->end (check if reached end of bounds, jump to end)

    (loop body code)

    rpop inc rpush (increment idx)
    jump_imm->loop_start
end:
    rpop rpop drop drop (clean up return stack)
```

# todo
- [ ] opcodes finish
- [ ] inter-module calls and rets
- [ ] port assembler to cpp
- [ ] unit test?
- [x] raylib frontend with graphics (MVP)

Commit message:

Change macros from x! to $x so we don't conflict with variable store syntax

vm/README.md, after:

# Stack based VM

## module structure
| name            | size(bytes)     | description                             |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| module_name_len | 1               | length in bytes of name to follow       |
| module_name     | module_name_len | name data                               |
| num_fns         | 1               | number of function entries to follow    |
| **fn_entry[n]** |                 | **single function entry:**              |
| fn_name_len[n]  | 1               | length in bytes of name to follow       |
| fn_name[n]      | fn_name_len     | name data                               |
| entry offset[n] | 2               | little endian offset from start of file |
| data and code   |                 | data and code                           |

## bytecode
| opcode                           | val | stack effects            | description                              |
| -------------------------------- | --- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| `nop`                            | 0   | --                       | no op                                    |
| `+`                              | 1   | `l r -- l+r`             |                                          |
| `-`                              | 2   |                          |                                          |
| `*`                              | 3   |                          |                                          |
| `/`                              | 4   |                          |                                          |
| `%`                              | 5   |                          |                                          |
| `>>`                             | 6   |                          |                                          |
| `<<`                             | 7   |                          |                                          |
| `~`                              | 8   |                          |                                          |
| `>`                              | 9   | `l r -- l>r?`            | true=0, false=~0                         |
| `<`                              | 10  |                          |                                          |
| `>=`                             | 11  |                          |                                          |
| `<=`                             | 12  |                          |                                          |
| `==`                             | 13  |                          |                                          |
| `!=`                             | 14  |                          |                                          |
| `jump`                           | 15  | `addr -- `               | jump to addr on stack                    |
| `jump_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]`   | 16  | `--`                     | jump to addr in progmem                  |
| `call`                           | 17  | `addr -- `               | call to addr on stack                    |
| `call_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]`   | 18  | `--`                     | call to addr in progmem                  |
| `btrue`                          | 19  | `test addr -- `          | branch if test to addr on stack          |
| `btrue_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]`  | 20  | `test --`                | branch if test to addr in progmem        |
| `bfalse`                         | 21  | `test addr -- `          | branch if ~test to addr on stack         |
| `bfalse_imm[dest_lsb][dest_msb]` | 22  | `test --`                | branch if ~test to addr in progmem       |
| `return` or `;`                  | 23  | `--`                     | [return from call](#calling-convention)  |
| `load_module`                    | 24  | `nameptr -- id`          | load module from cstr-ptr on stack       |
| `extern_call`                    | 25  | `modid fnid --`          | call module/function                     |
| `loadword` or `@`                | 26  | `ptr -- n`               | load 2-byte word from progmem to stack   |
| `storeword` or `!`               | 27  | `n ptr --`               | store 2-byte word from stack to progmem  |
| `push_imm[imm_lsb][imm_msb]`     | 28  | `-- imm`                 | push immediate from progmem to stack     |
| `dup`                            | 29  | `n -- n n`               |                                          |
| `swap`                           | 30  | `a b -- b a`             |                                          |
| `drop`                           | 31  | `n --`                   |                                          |
| `over`                           | 32  | `a b -- a b a`           |                                          |
| `rot`                            | 33  | `a b c -- b c a`         |                                          |
| `dup2`                           | 34  | `n m -- n m n m`         |                                          |
| `swap2`                          | 35  | `a b c d -- c d a b`     |                                          |
| `over2`                          | 36  | `a b c d -- a b c d a b` |                                          |
| `drop2`                          | 37  | `a b --`                 | this is stupid                           |
| `rpush` or `>r`                  | 38  | `n -- `                  | pop from stack, push to return stack     |
| `rpop` or `r>`                   | 39  | `-- n`                   | pop from return stack, push to stack     |
| `rcopy` or `r@`                  | 40  | `-- n`                   | copy top item from return stack to stack |
| `inc`                            | 41  | `n -- n+1`               |                                          |
| `dec`                            | 42  | `n -- n-1`               |                                          |
| `rcopy2`                         | 40  | `-- a b`                 | copy top 2 from return stack, same order |
| `loadbyte` or `@b`               | 40  | `ptr -- n`               | load 1-byte word from progmem to stack   |
| `storebyte` or `!b`              | 40  | `n ptr --`               | store 1-byte word from stack to progmem  |

## calling convention
TODO figure out how inter-module calls and returns work (push inter-module tag
to return stack so we know when returning?)

## `as2.py` syntax
```
(comment)
(
    multi
    line comment
)

fn: ( <- label )
    10 print
; ( <- return )

myvar: #0 ( <- #n adds 2-byte value n to progmem here )
#b255 ( <- single byte literal to progmem)
#0x255 ( <- hex literal to progmem)
#b0x255 ( <- single byte hex)

#[
    0011 2233
    aabb ccdd
    eeff abcd
]
(binary block, each pair of hex numbers added verbatim to program here, any whitespace ignored)

mystr: "henlo" ( <- adds null-terminated string here )

entry:
    &mylabel ( <- push address of mylabel to stack)
    mylabel ( <- call_imm to mylabel )
    123 ( <- push_imm 123 )
;

$macro ( <- call macro (syntax is dependent on macro ) )
```

## `as2.py` macros
### `$if`
```
<n> $if
    [ (true branch code) ]
    [ (false branch code) ]
```
Eg
```
3 4 < $if
    [ 1 print ]
    [ 0 print ]
```

compiles to 
```
    (condition)
    bfalse_imm->else

    (true code)

    jump_imm->end
else:

    (false code)

end:
```

### `$for`
Expect `(startidx exclusive_upper_bound)` on stack. Loop the body until
idx>=bound. The loop index is stored on top of the return stack (upper bound is
stored below it on return stack), and can be retrieved with `r@`. This means you
must clean up the return stack (pop two from it) if doing an early exit.

```
<startidx> <exclusive_upper_bound> $for [
    (body)
]
```

compiles to:
```
    rpush
    rpush
loop_start:
    rcopy2
    > bfalse_imm->end (check if reached end of bounds, jump to end)

    (loop body code)

    rpop inc rpush (increment idx)
    jump_imm->loop_start
end:
    rpop rpop drop drop (clean up return stack)
```

# todo
- [ ] opcodes finish
- [ ] inter-module calls and rets
- [ ] port assembler to cpp
- [ ] unit test?
- [x] raylib frontend with graphics (MVP)
- [ ] Don't directly bake zero allocations in to .bin, add them in the header or
      something (or alloc from system)
